DOCSP-45187: Update (#98)
mongodb/docs-ruby: source/write/update.txt

         Validation </core/schema-validation/#schema-validation>` in the MongoDB
         Server manual.
       | Defaults to ``false``.

   * - ``collation``
     - | Specifies the kind of language collation to use when sorting
         results. For more information, see :manual:`Collation </reference/collation/#std-label-collation>`
         in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

   * - ``array_filters``
     - | Provides a list of filters that you specify to select which
         array elements the update applies to.

   * - ``hint``
     - | Sets the index to use when matching documents. 
         For more information, see the :manual:`hint statement </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-command-hint>`
         in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

   * - ``let``
     - | Provides a map of parameter names and values to set top-level
         variables for the operation. Values must be constant or closed
         expressions that don't reference document fields. For more information,
         see the :manual:`let statement
         </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-let-syntax>` in the
         {+mdb-server+} manual.

Modify Update Example
`````````````````````

> This example creates and passes options to the ``update_one()`` method.
> The example uses the ``$equal`` operation to match documents

Reviewer: S: I think you can safely cut this line and go straight to the explanation

```suggestion
This example uses the ``$equal`` operation to match documents
```

> This example creates and passes options to the ``update_one()`` method.
> The example uses the ``$equal`` operation to match documents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example creates and passes options to the ``update_one()`` method.
The example uses the ``$equal`` operator to match documents
```

> in which the ``name`` field value is ``"Sunrise Pizzeria"``. It then uses the ``$set`` 

Reviewer: S:

```suggestion
where the value of the ``name`` field is ``"Sunrise Pizzeria"``. It then uses the ``$set`` 
```

> operation to set the ``borough`` field value in the first matching document to

Reviewer: S: looks like the server docs call `$set` an operator, and `insertOne` / `updateOne` etc. operations.

```suggestion
operator to set the ``borough`` field value in the first matching document to
```

``"Queens"`` and the ``cuisine`` field value to ``"Italian"``.

> Because the ``upsert`` option is set to ``true``, the driver inserts a new document that
> has the fields and values specified in the filter and update document if the query filter
> doesn't match any existing documents.

Reviewer: S:

```suggestion
Because the ``upsert`` option is set to ``true``, if the query filter
doesn't match any existing documents, the driver inserts a new document that
contains the fields and values in the filter and update documents.
```

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/write/update.rb
      :start-after: start-update-options
      :end-before: end-update-options
      :language: ruby
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :language: console
      :visible: false

      1 document(s) updated

Return Value
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``update_one()`` and ``update_many()`` methods each return a ``Result`` 

> object. You can use the access the following instance methods from a ``Result`` instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
object. You can access the following methods from a ``Result`` instance:
```

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Method
     - Description

   * - ``matched_count``

>      - | Returns the number of documents that matched the query filter, regardless of

Reviewer: S: Same as above--I think you can cut "Returns the" in these rows

         how many updates were performed.

   * - ``modified_count``
     - | Returns the number of documents modified by the update operation. If an updated
         document is identical to the original, it is not included in this
         count.
         
   * - ``acknowledged?``
     - | Returns ``true`` if the server acknowledged the result.

   * - ``upserted_count``
     - | Returns the number of documents that were upserted in the database, if the driver
         performed an upsert.

   * - ``upserted_ids``
     - | Returns the ``_id`` value of the document that was upserted
         in the database, if the driver performed an upsert.

> .. note::
> 
>    If the ``acknowledged?`` method returns ``false``, trying to
>    access other information from the ``Result`` instance results in an
>    ``InvalidOperation`` exception. The driver cannot 
>    determine these values if the server does not acknowledge the write
>    operation.

Reviewer: S: reframe as a tip

```suggestion
.. tip::

   Check the value of the ``acknowledged?`` method before you try
   to call any other ``Result`` methods. If the ``acknowledged?``
   method returns ``false``, the driver throws an ``InvalidOperation``
   exception if you try to call any other method on the ``Result`` object.
   The driver cannot determine these values if the server does not acknowledge the write
   operation.
```

--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use the {+driver-short+} to update
documents in a MongoDB collection by using the ``update_one`` and

> ``update_many`` methods.

Reviewer: Q: most of our docs include parentheses after a method name; is there something different about ruby?

Author: I asked Nora about this – it seems like current Ruby documentation avoids using parentheses. The language in general seems more relaxed about using parentheses in code.

Reviewer 2: Parentheses are largely optional in Ruby, as long as the meaning is unambiguous. By convention, parentheses are almost always omitted when a method call has no parameters (e.g `file.close`). Otherwise, Rubyists often omit parentheses when there is only a single literal argument (e.g. `puts "hello"`) or with keyword arguments (e.g. `foo a: 1, b: "two"`). It becomes a stylistic concern at that point.

Asking MongoGPT about it, the all-knowing AI suggests the following:

In Ruby, omitting parentheses for method arguments is common, especially in certain contexts where it enhances readability and maintains a more natural syntax. Here are some conventions and guidelines that developers often follow when deciding whether to omit parentheses:

1. **DSLs (Domain-Specific Languages):** When designing or using DSLs, parentheses are often omitted to create a syntax that reads more like a natural language. This is common in frameworks like Rails, particularly in routing and validation declarations.

2. **Control Structures:** For built-in Ruby control structures such as `if`, `while`, `until`, and `case`, parentheses are typically omitted around their conditions to improve readability and maintain a cleaner syntax.

3. **Short Methods:** When calling methods that take no arguments or only a single simple argument, it is common to omit parentheses to streamline the code. For example:  
   ```ruby
   puts "Hello, world"
   ```

4. **Internal DSLs or Configure Blocks:** In configurations or setup blocks (e.g., Rake tasks, ActiveRecord scopes), omitting parentheses can make the code easier to follow and more domain-centric.

5. **Chaining Methods:** When method calls are chained, parentheses are usually omitted for the first method call if it takes a single argument, leading to a more fluid syntax.

6. **Readability:** Parentheses can be omitted when they enhance readability by removing unnecessary clutter, especially in expressions that are clearly understood without them.

However, there are also scenarios where including parentheses is preferred:

- **Ambiguity:** If omitting parentheses leads to ambiguity or confusion about the order of operations, it is better to include them.
- **Multi-Argument Methods:** When a method takes multiple arguments, especially with complex expressions, using parentheses can make the argument list clearer.
- **Precedence Issues:** In expressions with complex operator precedence, including parentheses can clarify the intended order of operations.
- **Method Definitions:** When defining methods, it's common to use parentheses for the argument list to clearly specify the parameters, even though it is optional.

Ultimately, the decision to omit parentheses often comes down to personal or team styling preferences, but developers should aim for consistency and clarity in their code.

     - Description

   * - ``upsert``
     - | Whether the update operation performs an upsert operation if no 
         documents match the query filter. For more information, see the :manual:`upsert
         statement </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-command-upsert>`
         in the {+mdb-server+} manual.
       | Default: ``false``

   * - ``bypass_document_validation``
     - | Whether the update operation bypasses document validation. This lets you 
         update documents that don't meet the schema validation requirements, if any 
         exist. For more information about schema validation, see :manual:`Schema
         Validation </core/schema-validation/#schema-validation>` in the MongoDB
         Server manual.
       | Default: ``false``

   * - ``collation``

>      - | The kind of language collation to use when sorting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - | Language collation to use when sorting
```

         results. For more information, see :manual:`Collation </reference/collation/#std-label-collation>`
         in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

   * - ``array_filters``
     - | List of filters that you specify to select which
         array elements the update applies to.

   * - ``hint``
     - | Index to use when matching documents. 
         For more information, see the :manual:`hint statement </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-command-hint>`
         in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

   * - ``let``

>      - | A map of parameter names and values to set top-level

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - | Map of parameter names and values to set top-level
```

Modify Update Example
`````````````````````

The example uses the ``$equal`` operator to match documents
where the value of the ``name`` field is ``"Sunrise Pizzeria"``. It then uses the ``$set`` 
operator to set the ``borough`` field value in the first matching document to
``"Queens"`` and the ``cuisine`` field value to ``"Italian"``.

Because the ``upsert`` option is set to ``true``, if the query filter
doesn't match any existing documents, the driver inserts a new document that

> has the fields and values in the filter and update documents.

Reviewer: S:

```suggestion
contains the fields and values in the filter and update documents.
```
